Abstraction


1.Data Abtration refer to the the act of representing essential feature without including background details
2.It can be achieved in Python by using interfaces and abstract classes.
3.It is used to make code more modular, reusable, and easier to understand.

eg-For the sake of understanding let us have an example as we all use the social platforms and contact our friends, 
chat, share images etc., but we don’t know how these operations are happening in the background. 

l=[2,5,1,9]
l.sort()[hide internal working ]
print(l)-[1,2,5,9]

In Python, abstraction can be achieved by using abstract classes and interfaces.

Abstract Classes:
1.Abstract Classes are classes that cannot be instantiated or we can not create object of abstract class. 
2.They serve as blueprints for other classes and may define abstract methods 
(methods without implementation) that must be implemented by subclasses. 

3.Abstract classes are created using the abc(Abstract Base Class) module in Python.
4.An Abstract class can contain the both method normal and abstract method.

Using Abstract Methods:
Abstract methods are declared using the @abstractmethod decorator provided by the abc module (Abstract Base Classes) in Python. Any class containing abstract methods must inherit from ABC (Abstract Base Class) and implement all abstract methods defined in its parent classes.


Interfaces:
1.Python does not have a built-in concept of interfaces like some other programming languages (e.g., Java). 
2.However, you can use abstract base classes (ABCs) to define interfaces, as shown in the example.

from abc import ABC, abstractmethod
class Car(ABC):
  @abstractmethod
  def mileage(self):
    pass
	
class Audi(Car):
  def mileage(self):
    return 'Mileage is 10 km'

class BMW(Car):
  def mileage(self):
    return 'Mileage is 9km'

class Verna(Car):
  def mileage(self):
    return 'Mileage is 12km'
	
v=Verna()
v.mileage()

o/p-Mileage is 12km



syntax:

class C:
	def m1():
		pass
		
class P(C):
	def m1():
		statement1..
		statement2..
		statement3..
		.
		.
		.
		statementn


java code:
class P
{
	public abstract int getvehical();
}		

class C extends P
{
	public int getvehical()
	{
		return T
	}
}


 
