


Feature					NumPy Arrays										Python Lists
Element data type		Stores homogeneous data         					The elements can be of different data types.
						i.e., the elements are of the same data type
	
Flexibility				Less flexible,	because operations are 				Allows more flexibility in adding, removing data.
						performed element wise.
						
Declaration for usage	Numpy module needs to be imported for using 		No import is required to use Python lists.
						Numpy arrays.
Arithmetic and 
matrix operations		Many vector and matrix operations are in-built		Complex statistical and analytical libraries are not available.
Loops					Explicit loop is required to run through the 		Explicit loop is not required to run through the elements.
						elements.	
						
						
						



Name a few use cases where NumPy is useful.
	To perform complex mathematical computations on arrays.
	To use multi-dimensional arrays and matrices in operations.
	To execute trigonometric, statistical, and algebraic functions.
	To execute transforms and methods for shape manipulation.
	To generate random numbers.
	To add/ delete/ sort/ split arrays.
	

How many dimensions can a NumPy array have?
	In NumPy, an array can have N-dimensions, and is called a ndarray.
	Ndarray is a multidimensional container which contains elements of the same type and size.
	The number of dimensions in a ndarray is also known as ‘rank’.
	A tuple of integers called ‘shape’ defines the size of the array in each dimension.
	The data type of elements in ndarray is defined by a  ‘dtype’ object.
	
How does the flatten function differs from the ravel function??
	The flatten() function always returns a copy. The ravel() function returns a view of the original array in most cases. 
	ravel() is faster than flatten()
	
What caused the Overflow error in NumPy?
	The fixed size of NumPy numeric types causes an overflow error when a value needs more memory than available in the data type. 
	In other words, you use a value too large to fit in the required place.
	

How does NumPy differ from Pandas?
NumPy													Pandas
It is a fundamental library of Python.					It is an open-source and BSD-licensed library written in Python language.

It has a set of tools like multidimensional				It provides a set of data analysis tools,time series, 
arrays for performing scientific computation			to perform multiple operations on data.
and other complex functions.

It works on numeric data and you can call it, 			It works on tabular data, and you can call it,"pandas module".
"numpy module".	

It is also fast but memory efficient.					It is fast but consumes more memory.
It supports fewer applications compared to Pandas.		It supports broader and large industrial applications.


How do you calculate the moving average?
Using convolve function is the simplest method which is based on discrete convolution. 
You have to use a method that calculates discrete convolution to get a rolling mean.


Indexing: Indexing is used to obtain individual elements.
Slicing: Slicing is used to obtain a sequence of elements.
Indexing and Slicing can be be done in Python Sequences types like list, string, tuple, range objects.

How can you check whether any NumPy Array has elements or is empty?
	numpy.any()		An array element is evaluated as True if it lies along any given axis. 
					Simply put, it returns TRUE if the array has elements otherwise, FALSE.
	numpy.size()	The function returns size of array. If the return value is zero, then the array is empty.
	

How is the seed function used in NumPy?
The seed function sets the seed(provides input) of a pseudo-random number generator in NumPy.

How to convert the data type of an array in NumPy?
The data type(dtype) of an array can be changed using the function numpy.astype()


What is the difference between copy and view in NumPy?
Copy
	Returns a copy of the original array.
	Do not share the data or memory location with the original array.
	Any modifications made in the copy will not get reflected in the original.
	
View
	Returns a view of the original array.
	Does use the data and memory location of the original array.
	Any modifications made in the copy will get reflected in the original.
	

What is the biggest challenge while writing extension modules in NumPy?
Reference counting is the biggest challenge while writing extension modules in NumPy. 
Mismanagement of reference counting might result in memory leaks and segmentation faults. 
It is challenging to manage the reference counting. 



Difference Between Python List and NumPy Array
1. A list cannot directly handle a mathematical operations, while array can
2. An array consumes less memory than a list
3. Using an array is faster than a list
4. A list is easier to modify.
5. A list can consist of different nested data size.
6. A list can store different data types

Similarities between a list and an array?
1. They both use square brackets ([])
2. Both datatype are mutable
3. Both can be indexed and can be used for slicing operations
